---
layout:         post
title:          "Reading Reflection on Willem B. Dreers' "The Humanities""
date:           "2022-09-21"
categories:     jekyll update
---

## Reading Reflection on Willem B. Dreers' "The Humanities"
Kevin Arellano Flores

CLS-0161 - Introduction to Digital Humanities

Professor Saxton

Coming into this course, my familiarity with the notion of "the Digital Humanities", let alone "the Humanities", was incredibly lacking and heavily skewed. Willem B. Dreers' exploratory article titled "What Are the Humanities For?" served as a well-appreciated introduction to the curious disciplines of the Humanities. In this article, Dreer immediately acknowledges that "the Humanities" is a term not easily defined. He seeks to quell the discourse on a presice definition, as he considers it to be an inhibiting force in the development and growth of the subfields to be found within the Humanities.

Dreer provides the reader with a variety of definitions that he later comes to nitpick and dissect, to understand how different definitions and perceptions of the Humanities either support development of human knowledge in the field, or may create a sort of confusion that makes it difficult for those not familiar with the field to become acclimated to it, and then contribute towards it.

I particularly enjoyed a sentence Dreer emplaced, which reads, "In their... relevant for research" (Dreers 15). I felt as though this sentence beautifully summed the purpose of the Humanities, and described the basis for passion humanists feel for the expansion of our communal understanding of humanity. The idea that, from each and every human actions, humanists can derive a critical understanding of what makes an action intrinsically human, then add such understanding to a vast humanist repository of knowledge concerning the fundamentals of being human, is incredible. And further, with the regard humanists give to the historical setting such an action took place in, we can piece together a thorough understanding of historical societies of the past and present. Now knowing that the development of this understanding is a product of much study, by many humanist researchers, I do still continue to feel a slight uneasiness and worry at the thought that our humanist understanding of an individual's action may be innacurate and wholly misinterpreted. It makes me wonder how humanists have come to "correct" or better-guide past interpretations, and how such "misinterpretations" first came to their radar?

I also connected with another of Dreers ideas that revolve around the "appropriate" approaches humanists shouls take to analyze human actions. Dreer believes that scholarly efforts within humanist disciplines should welcome and encourage analysses based on empathy. I think I developed an idea of humanist research as being similar to research in other scientific fields--largely inpartial to the subject at focus. I like being able to view humanist research and study as vessels that connect humans with one another, across the borders of geography and time. Empathy is a very difficult skill, in-and-of-itself, to develop and perform sincerely. I hold connections with those around me very dearly, and the idea that, through empathetic, humanist study, we may be able to gather and connect with human perspectives of the environmental stimuli we observe and interact with on a daily basis. Another way to put it, it permits the ability for us to congregate and cherish our lively and continued existence that has been possible through the surpassing of incredible odds across life's, and Earth's, history.
