---
layout:         post
title:          "Reading Reflection on Robert Mayhew"
date:           "2022-09-26"
categories:     jekyll update
---
Kevin Arellano Flores

CLS-0161 - Introduction to Digital Humanities

Dr. Saxton

Robert Mayhew’s “The Cambridge Companion to Edward Gibbon” is a book dedicated to the providing a thorough analysis of Edward Gibbon’s “*History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire*” that may aid in scholars’ ability to approach and then digest this work of great historical significance. For this reflection, I chose to read the second chapter of this book, which focuses on geography.

A major point of this chapter is the description of how Gibbon utilized and actively embedded his geographic knowledge across his book to develop a transhistorical relation between the reader in the modern day and the events of antiquity in the Roman Empire. I was surprised to learn that Gibbon’s idea of writing his magnum opus came to him while touring Rome’s ancient ruins and the region’s geography. I found it fascinating how Gibbon’s extensive study of geography combined with his equally extensive historical studies pushed him to write about this once prosperous civilization and the decay that brought it crumbling down. It really emphasizes just how passionate Gibbon was in the area of history and geography, and shows the type of passion that other humanists hold for their study of human-kind.

I think my interest with this chapter lies in the significance that geography plays throughout Gibbon’s work. Mayhew details Gibbon’s extensive geographical knowledge to intricately describe to the modern reader the circumstances those of the Roman Empire found themselves surrounded; By illustrating the culture of the historical period, and further, of the geographic region, the reader gains a resonance with the topics in focus that cannot be replicated given the passing of time. Mayhew describes this as geographical imagination. I had never before picked up on the extent to which this literary strategy could be used in relation to geography. Learning about its use by Gibbon was fascinating. In terms of reading a historical work, I am beginning to see just how useful and beneficial it would be for the reader to be provided extensive detail as to the geographic setting a historical event took place, freeing the reader from limitations in interpretations and analyses. This importance was resonated by Gibbon’s utter emphasis of geographic accuracy throughout his book, looking to many various extents to bring a setting to life, from those who inhabit a particular geographic region, to how these people have engaged with the region over time, transforming it and leaving behind marks of human civilization. 

I would like the opportunity to see how Gibbon’s description of the Roman Empire changed across the book, as Gibbon explored different historical periods defined by eras of prosperity, and also suffering, for the Empire’s people?
