---
layout:         post
title:          "Reading Reflection on Adam Kirsch"
date:           "2022-10-17"
categories:     jekyll update
---
Kevin Arellano Flores

CLS-0161 - Introduction to Digital Humanities

Dr. Saxton

The article “Technology is Taking Over English Departments,” by Adam Kirsch, serves as an interesting consideration of the the role technology has come to emplace itself within academic settings, particularly those dealing with the Humanities.

As other readings in this course have, this article explores the detrimental effects our academic reliance on technology may have on the Humanities, which continue to emphasize the persistence of traditional, ancient, humanist analyses of humanist evidence. In particular, one emphasized point in this article is the unreliable nature of analyses produced by those present technologies and the computational methods we have access to. It is interesting that this article wants the Humanities to turn away from a complete and absolute embrace of technological analyses as a result. I do agree that, from personal experience applying computational methods on data I am somewhat familiar with, these methods have produced largely surface-level analyses. They would not necessarily give me the entire appreciation and understanding of data that I could gain from a “close reading” as opposed to a “distant reading” of it—a term Kirsch uses to refer to the present nature of computational analyses. And, that is okay, I think. When using these digital technologies I do not expect to become an expert in the studied data. I may only be looking to gain small bits-and-pieces of information about it. I think that is incredibly important to remember when considering the role and place of technology in the Humanities, as well as in other fields. Recently, the ChatGPT platform has gained substantial popularity. I am curious to learn how Kirsch and other scholars would embrace or reject this resource, given its promise in compiling information.

This article asks scholars to think about whether it is an inevitability for both human civilization and academic settings to become substantially, if not entirely, dependent on technology. Right now, the most important asset in the Digital Humanities can be said to be humanist thought and approaches—those technology cannot replicate. It is interesting that the advent of substantial technologies that may replicate this thought may mean that humans essentially will have nothing further to the development of the Humanities. The idea that academics may give up a field entirely up-to computers to maintain is interesting, and personally, very thought-provoking.
